# iCal4j Actions

Workflow automation for iCalendar

## Introduction

Calendaring and scheduling systems often include predefined and customisable workflow behaviours based on triggers and
object state. When you create a new meeting it must be forwarded to all participants in order for them
to communicate their availability (i.e. accept or decline). Similarly, when the system receives a response from a
participant it must update the corresponding event with their participation status.

These are examples of predefined workflow automation within a calendaring system, however it is also conceivable to
support customisable workflows to support bespoke solutions. iCal4j Actions allows you to define intent-based actions
in response to triggers, and the corresponding automation to fulfil those intents.

## Workflow Rules

Workflow automation are defined in the rule definitions, which define the conditions that trigger a workflow and the
workflow intent. Each rule is applied to the workflow context (e.g. a content collection, etc.), and the specified
intent is triggered if the rule is satisfied.

Rules may be defined programmatically or via the rule definition language (TBD).

## Intents

Intents are used to track (and persist) actions generated by a workflow rule, and provide an abstraction to the underlying
implementation. 

For example, when a new meeting invitation is created, it may generate an action to email all participants.
This action can be persisted with the `EMAIL_PARTICIPANTS` Intent, and a link to the meeting invitation. Futher processing
of the action would see it fulfilled by a configured email service.



## Summary

Managing schedules across multiple CUAs can be complex and time-consuming, even when using sophisticated software such as Microsoft Outlook or on of the many capable CalDAV implementations. The ical4j-scheduler aims to provide functions that can automate some of the time-consuming manual aspects of schedule management.

## Features

* Automatic resource allocation - a common use-case for scheduling software is allocation of resources, such as meeting rooms, for an event. Instead of manually searching for an available resource, just include the ical4j-scheduler as an attendee and it will provide a counter-invitation that includes an appropriate resource. Resources may be allocated intelligently using event event properties such as number of attendees, location, etc. to allocate the most appropriate available resource.
* Automated conflict resolution - often resources and people may have conflicts in their schedule that prevent them from being available for simultaneous events. The ical4j-scheduler can offer to resolve such conflicts whilst avoiding new conflicts based on the free/busy availability of the resources and people in question. One or more counter-invitations will be provided to the events managed (attended) by the ical4j-scheduler that offer a solution to the conflict. This can also be useful for constructing recurring timetables for many people and resources.
